_This page was generated from POD using [pod2gcw](http://code.google.com/p/pod2gcw) and is not intended for editing._

## NAME ##
graph\_profile.pl

A script to graph Y values along a genomic coordinate X-axis.

## SYNOPSIS ##
graph\_profile.pl <filename>

```
  Options:
  --in <filename>
  --index <index1,index2,...>
  --all
  --cen
  --xindex <index>
  --skip <integer>
  --offset <integer>
  --xformat <integer>
  --min <number>
  --max <number>
  --yformat <integer>
  --ytick <integer>
  --color <name,name,...>
  --dir <foldername>
  --version
  --help
```
## OPTIONS ##
The command line flags and descriptions:

--in <filename>


> Specify an input file containing either a list of database features or  genomic coordinates for which to collect data. The file should be a  tab-delimited text file, one row per feature, with columns representing  feature identifiers, attributes, coordinates, and/or data values. The  first row should be column headers. Text files generated by other  **BioToolBox** scripts are acceptable. Files may be gzipped compressed.

> 
--index <index>


> Specify the column number(s) corresponding to the dataset(s) in the file to graph. Number is 0-based index. Each dataset should be  demarcated by a comma. A range of indices may also be specified using  a dash to demarcate the beginning and end of the inclusive range.  Multiple datasets to be graphed together should be joined with an ampersand.  For example, "2,4-6,5&6" will individually graph datasets 2, 4, 5, 6,  and a combination 5 and 6 graph.

> 
> If no dataset indices are specified, then they may be chosen  interactively from a list.

> 
--all


> Automatically graph all available datasets present in the file.

> 
--cen


> Datasets should (not) be median centered prior to graphing. Useful when  graphing multiple datasets together when they have different medians.  Default is false.

> 
--xindex <index>


> Specify the column index of the X-axis dataset. Unless specified, the  program automatically uses the columns labeled 'Midpoint' or 'Window',  if present.

> 
--skip <integer>


> Specify the ordinal number of X axis major ticks to label. This  avoids overlapping labels. The default is 1 (every tick is labeled).

> 
--offset <integer>


> Specify the number of X axis ticks to skip at the beginning before starting  to label them. This may help in adjusting the look of the graph. The  default is 0.

> 
--xformat <integer>


> Specify the number of decimal places the X axis labels should be formatted.  The default is undefined (no formatting).

> 
--min <number>


--max <number>


> Specify the minimum and/or maximum values for the Y-axis. The default  values are automatically determined from the dataset.

> 
--yformat <integer>


> Specify the number of decimal places the Y axis labels should be formatted.  The default is undefined (no formatting).

> 
--ytick <integer>


> Specify explicitly the number of major ticks for the Y axes.  The default is 8.

> 
--color <name,name,...>


> Optionally specify the colors for the data lines. The default set  is lred, lgreen, lblue, lyellow, lpurple, cyan, and lorange. See the  documentation for [GD::Graph::colour](Pod_GD_Graph_colour.md) for a complete list.

> 
--dir


> Optionally specify the name of the target directory to place the  graphs. The default value is the basename of the input file  appended with "`_`graphs".

> 
--version


> Print the version number.

> 
--help


> Print this help documenation

> 
## DESCRIPTION ##
This program will generate PNG graphic files representing a profile of  values plotted along a specific X-axis. For example, plotting values  along genomic coordinates or relative positions along a feature. The  X-axis values are static and each dataset is plotted against it. One or  more datasets may be plotted on a single graph, each in a different  color, with a legend printed beneath the graph. The graph is a simple  Bezier-smoothed line graph.

The resulting files are written to a subdirectory named after  the input file. The files are named after the dataset name (column  header) with a prefix.

## AUTHOR ##
```
 Timothy J. Parnell, PhD
 Howard Hughes Medical Institute
 Dept of Oncological Sciences
 Huntsman Cancer Institute
 University of Utah
 Salt Lake City, UT, 84112
```
This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL (either version 1, or at your option, any later version) or the Artistic License 2.0.
