_This page was generated from POD using [pod2gcw](http://code.google.com/p/pod2gcw) and is not intended for editing._

## NAME ##
map\_transcripts.pl

A script to associate enriched regions of transcription with gene annotation.

## SYNOPSIS ##
map\_transcripts.pl --ffile <filename> --rfile <filename> --out <filename>

map\_transcripts.pl --db <name> --win <i> --step <i> --fdata <name>  --rdata <name> --thresh <i> --out <filename>

```
  Options:
  --out <filename>
  --ffile <filename>
  --rfile <filename>
  --db <db_name>
  --win <integer>
  --step <integer>
  --thresh <number>
  --fdata <dataset | filename>
  --rdata <dataset | filename>
  --tol <integer>
  --min <integer>
  --(no)gff
  --source <text>
  --version
  --help
```
## OPTIONS ##
The command line flags and descriptions:

--out <filename>


> Provide the base output filename for the transcript data file, GFF file,  and summary file.

> 
--ffile <filename>


--rfile <filename>


> Provide the names of eniched regions files representing transcription  fragments. The files should be generated by the program  `find_enriched_regions.pl`. If these files are not provided, they  will be automatically generated by running the find\_enriched\_regions.pl  program using the parameters defined here. Two files should be provided:  each representing transcription fragments on the forward and reverse  strands.

> 
--db <database\_name>


> Specify the name of a `Bio::DB::SeqFeature::Store` annotation database  from which gene or feature annotation may be derived. For more  information about using annotation databases, see  <https://code.google.com/p/biotoolbox/wiki/WorkingWithDatabases>.

> 
--win <integer>


> Specify the window size in bp to scan the genome for enriched regions.  When the find\_enriched\_regions.pl program is run, trimming is turned  on so that the final regions are not limited to multiples of  window size.

> 
--step <integer>


> Specify the step size in bp for advancing the window across the genome  when scanning for enriched regions.

> 
--thresh <number>


> Specify the threshold value to identify regions that are enriched,  i.e. expressed. A relatively low value should be set to ensure  low expressed transcripts are also included. The value may be gleaned  from the metadata in the provided enriched regions files.

> 
--fdata <dataset>


--rdata <dataset>


> Specify the name of the datasets in the database representing the  forward and reverse transcription data. Alternatively,  the paths of data files may be provided. Supported formats include  Bam (.bam), BigBed (.bb), or BigWig (.bw). Files may be local or  remote (http:// or ftp://).

> 
--tol <integer>


> Specify the tolerance distance in bp with which the ends of a  transcription fragment and gene need to be within to call the  transcription fragment a complete transcript. If the ends  exceed the tolerance value, then the transcription fragment is  labeled as 'overlap'. The default value is 20 bp.

> 
--min <integer>


> Small, spurious transcription fragments may be identified, particularly  if the threshold is set too low or the dataset is noisy. This  parameter sets the minimum size of the transcription fragment to  initiate a search for associated known genes. The default value is  100 bp.

> 
--(no)gff


> Indicate whether a GFF file should also be written. A version 3 file  is generated. The default is true.

> 
--source <text>


> Specify the GFF source value when writing a GFF file. The default  value is the name of this program.

> 
--version


> Print the version number.

> 
--help


> Display the POD documentation.

> 
## DESCRIPTION ##
This program will identify transcription fragments that correspond to  gene transcripts using available transcriptome microarray data. Specifically,  it will identify the start and stop coordinates of transcribed regions  that correspond or overlap an annotated gene or ORF. It does not identify  exons or introns.

The program was initially written to address the lack of officially mapped  transcripts in the S. cerevisiae genome, which has few and small introns.  It may work well other similar genomes, but probably not complex  metazoan genomes with very large introns.

Transcription fragments are identified as windows of enrichment using the  script 'find\_enriched\_regions.pl'. This script can either be automatically executed using the specified parameters, or run separately. If run separately,  the output files should be indicated (--ffile and --rfile).

Each enriched window, or transcription fragment, is checked for corresponding  or overlapping genomic features. The name(s) of the overlapping gene(s) are  reported, as well as a classification for the transcript. Transcripts that  completely contain (within a default 20 bp tolerance) a single known gene  (ORF or ncRNA) are labeled as 'complete'. Transcription fragments that  simply overlap a known gene are labeled as 'overlap'. Transcription fragments  that overlap more than one annotated gene are labeled as 'multi-orf'.

Transcription fragments that only overlap annotated genes on the opposite  strand are labeled as 'anti-sense'. Transcription fragments overlapping  repetitive elements or no known feature are also reported.

Some rudimentary calculations are performed to identify the length of  the 5' and 3' UTRs.

The program writes out a tab delimited text file. It will also write out a gff file for the genome browser. It also writes out a summary report file.

## AUTHOR ##
```
 Timothy J. Parnell, PhD
 Howard Hughes Medical Institute
 Dept of Oncological Sciences
 Huntsman Cancer Institute
 University of Utah
 Salt Lake City, UT, 84112
```
This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL (either version 1, or at your option, any later version) or the Artistic License 2.0.
